have you had the experience of trying to
come up with a speech but you found that
you're spending more time staring at a
blank computer screen experiencing
writer's block not knowing how to build
a speech or where to come up with ideas
for that speech don't worry you are not
the only one coming up with content for
a speech is very difficult but in this
video I'm going to give you a few ideas
so you can hopefully get past the
writer's block stage and just spend time
focusing honing in on that speech to
make it the best speech possible hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and
my whole YouTube channel is about
helping make you a better Communicator a
better public speaker and if that is
something you're interested in please
subscribe to my channel turn on those
notifications so that you never miss a
brand new video it would mean so much to
me and thank you for taking the time to
watch this video on how to come up with
content ideas for a speech all right
let's jump into those ideas for how you
can come up with content for your next
speech and the first thing of course
that you need to think about is what
type of speech is it because there are
many different types of speeches a
speech could be considered a
presentation you deliver in front of
your office at work that's probably
going to be a very different speech than
if you're giving a toast to the bride or
toast to the groom at a wedding and
probably humor is a little bit more
expected in that type of speech so
identifying first what is the theme what
is the formalities of the speech that
you're doing and from there obviously
the next pieces of advice some will be
more relevant than others an overall
great starting place for you to first
start thinking about how you're going to
come up with content ideas in the future
is to start a note you can do it right
within your phone or on a Word document
comment on your computer but list out
your best stories all of them all of the
stories you can think of and you may be
wondering well how do I know what my
best stories are I want you to think
about when you're with family or friends
and there's those stories that you've
told a few times and you know that
whenever you tell them they go over
really well so maybe they're funny
stories usually that's the case and they
get laughter from your friends or family
those are great stories write a list of
those stories out or maybe you have
really unique situations things that
have happened where the probability was
low on that thing happening one example
I think about myself is a time I was in
Vegas and I was sitting at a blackjack
table and I happened to put a five
dollar bet on one of the bonus areas and
I hit the absolute top bonus and won
something like two thousand dollars
that's not a funny story but it's a
really rare and unique story maybe one
maybe not the lottery but some sort of
50 50 draw and you want a bunch of money
so if it's that related that's a unique
story maybe that's something that's
interesting or perhaps you met a
celebrity and had an interesting
interaction with that person again these
are memorable stories so whether it's
funny whether it's Unique right all of
those stories down and have that in a
place where it's easy where you can add
to that list in the future a good friend
of mine actually does this and she has
some of the best stories you've ever
heard and it's a note in her phone and
what we literally do my wife and I when
we meet up with her we tell her to pull
out her list of stories and they're
based on titles only and we randomly
pick two different titles and she shares
the story behind whatever that title is
and they're hilarious like this person
and just has so many amazing stories but
that's the exact idea that you want to
do you want to build a list and have as
many great story ideas as possible if
you're still struggling to think up what
could be on this list focus on
self-deprecating stories in other words
what are some embarrassing moments that
you've had and you can't always share
those with the general audience
sometimes it's not appropriate but any
stories that are appropriate write those
down and even some of the ones that
maybe are on the edge still add them to
that list and categorize it what I found
over time and I have another video that
talks about why self-deprecating humor
is so powerful but those stories when we
are the victims of embarrassment they go
over so well with the audience so
include self-deprecating stories as part
of that list so why am I asking you to
build a big list of personal stories I
truly believe that almost any speech can
be more effective more impactful if it
includes personal stories audiences
connect with personal stories and if
you're trying to tell them about data or
Logistics or boring subjects that are
really data heavy and hard to keep our
attention on instantly you can make it
more powerful if you can give a real
life example that somehow ties to it I'm
not asking you to tell a story out of
left field that has nothing to do about
the presentation that you're delivering
but if you can make some sort of
connection but you include personal
stories it's going to have a much better
impact on the audience and they're going
to remember the information going
forward because they'll be able to tie
it to that story that you told and it
will help their memory in the Future
Okay so we've talked about personal
stories which is probably the biggest
content source that you're going to have
and can work with a lot of speeches
sometimes they're a whole speech on
their own but even for longer
presentations half hour one hour two
hour presentations sometimes you might
even have two or three personal stories
you embed in that speech and that's
going to really help fill out the speech
and make it more interesting to listen
to a second idea or option of where you
can come up with content ideas is
current events trending topics are an
incredible source of information for
your future speeches and there's two
reasons for this one audiences are
probably going to learn something so if
something is happening that is brand new
a trending topic current events either
your audience knows about it or they
don't and if they don't know about it
you are going to educate them you're
going to teach them what this brand new
thing is therefore that alone they're
going to find Value in you've taught
them something new that they didn't know
about previously but even if they know
about the trending topic or information
it's still a positive to use this in
your speech because they will know your
content is fresh it's new as an example
if a speaker in March 2023 is talking
about the artificial intelligence tool
chat GPT you know that that speech is
not one they've been recycling for years
and years and years and just
regurgitating and talking about chat EPT
has only been out for a few months so if
somebody is speaking about that in the
relatively near future you know that
this is a speech or a section of a
speech that they've built pretty
recently and that's a good feeling as
the audience to know that you're getting
something that's fresh something that's
probably original as compared to those
speakers who year over year talk about
the exact same thing over and over and
over it's nice to know that you're
getting new content speaking of chat GPT
that brings me to my third tip of where
you can get content ideas and that is it
a great content source is the artificial
intelligence tool chat GPT now I'm not
telling you to go use chat GPT and ask
it to write a full speech for you based
on something I mean you can do that but
that's getting into the borderline like
you want to put your own touch on it but
what I would suggest is use it for a
tool to get you past that stage of a
writer's block as an example if you want
to tell people why Edmonton is an
amazing place to live and you want to
build a speech about that you could type
into chat GPT give me 20 reasons why
Edmonton is the best city to live in in
Canada Chachi BT will deliver that list
and from there you can pick and choose
certain themes or ideas maybe tweak them
depending on the context of your speech
but you can use those ideas in your
speech as examples you may not use every
single one on the list but that's not
the purpose of chat gbt the purpose is
to help you use it as a tool to give you
that research that information and then
you take that information and and you
make it your own we are in the first
inning of how this artificial
intelligence tool can be used but I
guarantee this can be a great content
Source if you ever get stuck final piece
of advice for where you can come up with
content for your next speech is to think
about things you are passionate about
incorporate those things that you care
about because at the end of the day if
you're trying to deliver a dry boring
presentation it's going to be hard to
make your audience excited about that
but if you can find a way to inject your
own flavor or things that you are
passionate about within that speech it's
going to be so much more powerful
because your effort level is going to go
up and the audience is going to connect
as well I've seen many co-workers of
mine in the past truly struggle as they
try to deliver presentations that maybe
they inherited from another individual
and so it doesn't have have their own
touch on it and it's dry data
information and they really struggle to
communicate it in an effective way but
instead ask yourself what am I
passionate about and how could I inject
that into this speech for example maybe
you are somebody who works in technology
but you're passionate about photography
you could use powerful images that
you've taken over the previous years and
use those on slides that somehow relate
to the technology that you're talking
about or perhaps your Taylor Swift's
biggest fan and you're trying to talk
about the future of analytics use lyrics
from Taylor Swift's songs that relate to
the analytics that you're trying to
speak about and somehow make a tie in
that way I don't know be as creative as
you want but what I'm trying to say is
that if you add a unique flavor or spice
that is something unusual and especially
if you can even title your speech after
that like analytics based on Taylor
Swift or something like that it's going
to connect so much more powerfully with
your audience it's going to be an
interesting speech or a more interesting
speech to actually listen to and it's
something that you're going to enjoy
doing more than trying to regurgitate
someone else's boring presentation I
hope that this video has been a helpful
source of where you can go to find
content in the future because there's
nothing worse than being stuck in that
writer's block phase but we have enough
tools we have enough access to things
and hopefully this video gives you the
confidence that you won't have to stay
in that writer's block phase for long
you can get past it and not only that
you can use these tips to make your
future speeches way more interesting
thank you so much for taking the time to
tune into this video please subscribe to
my channel if you haven't already done
that I'm going to be putting out a lot
more video content about how to make you
a more impactful Communicator thank you
so much to everyone who has already
subscribed and I'll catch you on the
next video thank you so much for
watching this video if you are looking
for a little bit of coaching help with
your next speech I am providing
one-on-one evaluations my contact email
is in the video description reach out to
me and let's discuss what that could
look like